# Working with me

Sometimes folk like having a written guide for the best ways of working with
people. Here's one for me. This includes all sorts of interactions, including
but definitely not limited to paid employment!

## Comms

If you're getting in touch with me, in any format, I like to know what the
topic is up-front. By chat, [include some context in your first
message][nohello]. By email, please make the topic and what you're looking for
clear in the first paragraph, or ideally in the email subject. In person or in
calls, if I don't already know why we're talking, please give me that
information before the "how are you" type pleasantries.

If you have something time-sensitive, please call me or interrupt in person.
That's the most reliable way to get me to see something immediately.  Feel free
to interrupt if I have headphones on unless I'm obviously in a call.  If it's
not a scheduled call or meeting, though, I'm reasonably likely to want to deal
with the issue quickly and return to whatever I was doing previously.

If it's not time sensitive, I prefer email or instant message.  Email is more
reliable: I can keep an email in my inbox until I've dealt with it, whereas
instant messages are easier to miss.  Instant messages are more likely to be
seen sooner, although that's not guaranteed; I don't reliably check messages or
emails on any particular schedule.

At work, feel free to send me meeting invitations if there's something you want
to discuss.  You don't need to get my permission first, just send me the
invitation with a brief note about what you'd like to discuss.

## Motivation

I care a lot about making life better for people.  Improving someone's day or
solving a problem for them is fantastic.

I like rules and systems.  I like understanding them, I like improving them.
Nothing is perfect, and given the opportunity I will very happily take things
apart – machinery, software, abstract processes – to see how they work and how
they can work better.  Equally I can find it very frustrating when I can't do
that; seeing problems and having no way to address them is incredibly
unsatisfying.

I want to know why decisions are being made.  This is partly related to the
above: I want to understand the processes involved.  It's also because I find
it vastly easier to track and follow a workflow if I understand the reason each
step is there.

I have far more ideas than I can deliver.  Finishing a project might be more
satisfying than starting a new one,  but I find it difficult to resist novelty.
This is a problem I am actively working on, and expect to be actively working
on indefinitely.

## Medical

I have a few medical conditions that can affect my memory.  They're all
currently well-managed, but the nature of them means there's a risk they'll
recur and I won't notice.  If you notice signs that my memory isn't working as
well as normal (e.g. I don't seem to recall a previous conversation on a
topic), I'd be grateful if you could point it out.

I have joint issues that mean it may be more comfortable for me to sit than
stand in some circumstances, or vice versa.  I'm happy looking after myself in
this regard, but if I'm not doing the normal/expected thing, that's why.

[nohello]: https://aka.ms/nohello
